
Gridcoin

                                                                                                                                       



(GRC)



Hello Everyone,




Gridcoin is almost ready for launch.  I am hoping for November 1st 2013.
There will be No premining and I want this to be a fair launch for everyone.

The code is based on the latest litecoin source, and contains the instamine prevention and all of the latest security features.

Vital statistics:

 Algorithm: scrypt (like litecoin)
 Re-target difficulty: 3.5 days (like litecoin)  ---   with 2.5 min block targets, for quick confirmations for merchants.
 Block reward: VARIABLE:  5 to 150 subsidy.    5 is rewarded if you mine with a miner like cgminer without Boinc running on the machine, 6-150 if you mine with boinc running, you will receive a calculated subsidy based on boinc utilization.
Port: 9777 / 19777 (testnet)
Total coins: 84 million (like litecoin).


Web Site:
http://www.gridcoin.us

This week, we are having two professional videos shot, explaining the benefits of this coin.


I am in the process of writing the step-by-step mining document, to explain How to mine Gridcoin with cgminer, and receive the higher subsidy when you mine with boinc.



What makes gridcoin different?  Gridcoin requires miners to mine with BOINC running and aims to benefit humanity by providing real value while mining instead of generating heat and wasting electricity.

There are a few technical considerations, to make this coin successful.

1) For security purposes, pool mining is not possible yet (until we make an arrangement with the pool operators, to run the modified cgminer source code, with a special build and agreement) to ensure BOINC is running when it is supposed to be running.
2) Gridcoin Will let you mine against  a pool of addresses that are not loopback IPs, using a standard version of cgminer, with scrypt, with Litecoin settings, but you will only receive a 5 GRC subsidy instead of the variable subsidy.
3) When you mine with cgminer against the loopback address with boinc, the gridcoin server will award a higher calculated subsidy to the miner.
4) Solo mining is currently the preferred way to mine GRC.
5) Video cards are supported, but boinc must be running to receive the higher subsidies.
6) To start with boinc, download boinc separately, add a few projects that you are passionate about and run that program separately.
7) Gridcoin will measure the processes individual thread utilization, memory footprint, authenticity and send that information back to same thread that rpcmining is running on.  It will not provide a higher subsidy unless all of the requirements are met, and the mining module is registered to the machines registry.
8) The standard getblocks code is executed to make this blockchain backwards compatible with litecoin, and for maximum reliability and robustness.
9) Gridcoin has its own unique keys and new genesis block, and testnet is ready.  We wanted to make sure this chain will not have to be rebuilt after go live.
10) For maximum security, we want to make sure the linux version works properly with boinc and it is not quite ready.  The code will be available for everyone to see, but the linux version cannot handle boinc yet.  Windows will be released first along with a mining document that allows cgminer, boinc, and gridcoin-qt to run on windows so that we can launch.  Two teammembers are working on the linux-boinc compatibility module.

Here is some more information :

GridCoin is a new cryptocurrency that aims to provide real benefits to humanity by compensating the coin miners for participating in BOINC projects that may lead to advances in medicine, biology, mathematics, science, climatology, and astrophysics by concentrating a large percentage of the computational power towards BOINC research - instead of generating unecessary heat and wasted power for the proof of work algorithms required to keep the coin network running.

It is estimated that bitcoin is using approximately 23,312 megawatt hours per day (see electric consumption @ http://blockchain.info/stats (24 hour stats)) 
of electric for block solving algorithms.  

The aim of the gridcoin project is to shift the computational power primarily to Boinc projects while the mining operations become a second priority - so as the network is scaled up, boinc utilization is scaled up in tandem.

The coin miners will be rewarded with a small token subsidy if they fail to mine boinc shares, but a much larger subsidy when mining with boinc.

This digital cryptocurrency allows instant peer to peer transactions, worldwide payments and very low processing fees.

The source code is open source and allows everyone to take part in the success of the currency.
About the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for network computing grid:
Boinc is an opensource volunteer oriented computing grid that combines the processing power of all of the distributed PC's to concentrate on important projects.

Its free, and harnesses the unused clock cycles from PC and Video cards to aid in the research for the project goal.

Some of the major projects that you can participate in:


* Cancer research to help find cures for cancer and schizophrenia
* Rosetta@Home: 3 dimensional protien modeling, HIV, Cancer, Alzheimers
* World community grid: Various projects including researching strains of rice for regions where hunger is a concern
http://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/research/rice/overview.do
* Malaria control 
* Alzheimers and Mad cow research
* DNA Sequencing, Microorganism identification, Bird flu research, protien docking algorithms, molecular biology, evolution research
* Nanotechnology research to find new molecular materials
* Large scale protien structure prediction, understanding diseases and pathologies
* Quantum chemistry
* Discovery of new drugs
* Microgravity and microfluid research
* Search for Neutron stars
* Particle accelerator research
* Cryptographic research
* Search for extraterrestrials
* Creating better weather models, predicting the weather






Lets look forward to a successful launch of this new coin!  






Rob
















